“Love doesn't just sit there, like a stone, it has to be made, like bread; remade all the time, made new.” - The Lathe of Heaven
“You cannot buy the revolution. You cannot make the revolution. You can only be the revolution. It is in your spirit, or it is nowhere.” - The Dispossessed
“You can’t crush ideas by suppressing them. You can only crush them by ignoring them. By refusing to think, refusing to change.” - The Dispossessed
“People who deny the existence of dragons are often eaten by dragons. From within.”  - The Wave in the Mind
"When you light a candle, you also cast a shadow." -
“We read books to find out who we are. What other people, real or imaginary, do and think and feel... is an essential guide to our understanding of what we ourselves are and may become.” -
“It is good to have an end to journey toward; but it is the journey that matters, in the end.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“To learn which questions are unanswerable, and not to answer them: this skill is most needful in times of stress and darkness.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“A profound love between two people involves, after all, the power and chance of doing profound hurt.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“Truth is a matter of the imagination.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“I talk about the gods, I am an atheist. But I am an artist too, and therefore a liar. Distrust everything I say. I am telling the truth. The only truth I can understand or express is, logically defined, a lie. Psychologically defined, a symbol. Aesthetically defined, a metaphor.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“Light is the left hand of darkness
and darkness the right hand of light.
Two are one, life and death, lying
together like lovers in kemmer,
like hands joined together,
like the end and the way." - The Left Hand of Darkness
“The only thing that makes life possible is permanent, intolerable uncertainty: not knowing what comes next.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“Nobody who says, ‘I told you so’ has ever been, or will ever be, a hero.” -
“Only in silence the word,
Only in dark the light,
Only in dying life:
Bright the hawk's flight
On the empty sky. - Earthsea 
“There's a point, around the age of twenty, when you have to choose whether to be like everybody else the rest of your life, or to make a virtue of your peculiarities.” - The Dispossessed
“My imagination makes me human and makes me a fool; it gives me all the world and exiles me from it.” -
“It is our suffering that brings us together. It is not love. Love does not obey the mind, and turns to hate when forced. The bond that binds us is beyond choice. We are brothers. We are brothers in what we share. In pain, which each of us must suffer alone, in hunger, in poverty, in hope, we know our brotherhood. We know it, because we have had to learn it. We know that there is no help for us but from one another, that no hand will save us if we do not reach out our hand. And the hand that you reach out is empty, as mine is. You have nothing. You possess nothing. You own nothing. You are free. All you have is what you are, and what you give.” - The Dispossessed
“The law of evolution is that the strongest survives!' 'Yes, and the strongest, in the existence of any social species, are those who are most social. In human terms, most ethical...There is no strength to be gained from hurting one another. Only weakness.” -
“I had forgotten how much light there is in the world, till you gave it back to me.” - A Wizard of Earthsea
“If you evade suffering you also evade the chance of joy. Pleasure you may get, or pleasures, but you will not be fulfilled. You will not know what it is to come home.” - The Dispossessed
“What is an anarchist? One who, choosing, accepts the responsibility of choice.” -
“We all have forests in our minds. Forests unexplored, unending. Each one of us gets lost in the forest, every night, alone.” - The Wind's Twelve Quarters
“The end justifies the means. But what if there never is an end? All we have is means.” - The Lathe of Heaven
“For a word to be spoken, there must be silence. Before, and after.” - A Wizard of Earthsea
“And day to day, life's a hard job, you get tired, you lose the pattern. You need distance, interval. The way to see how beautiful the earth is, is to see it as the moon. The way to see how beautiful life is, is from the vantage point of death.” - The Dispossessed
“I think," Tehanu said in her soft, strange voice, "that when I die, I can breathe back the breath that made me live. I can give back to the world all that I didn't do. All that I might have been and couldn't be. All the choices I didn't make. All the things I lost and spent and wasted. I can give them back to the world. To the lives that haven't been lived yet. That will be my gift back to the world that gave me the life I did live, the love I loved, the breath I breathed.” - The Other Wind
“It is very hard for evil to take hold of the unconsenting soul.”  - A Wizard of Earthsea
“A man does not make his destiny: he accepts it or denies it.” - The Farthest Shore
“Do nothing because it is righteous or praiseworthy or noble to do so; do nothing because it seems good to do so; do only that which you must do and which you cannot do in any other way.” - The Farthest Shore
“There have been great societies that did not use the wheel, but there have been no societies that did not tell stories.” -
“Freedom is a heavy load, a great and strange burden for the spirit to undertake. It is not easy. It is not a gift given, but a choice made, and the choice may be a hard one. The road goes upward towards the light; but the laden traveler may never reach the end of it.” - The Tombs of Atuan
“I certainly wasn't happy. Happiness has to do with reason, and only reason earns it. What I was given was the thing you can't earn, and can't keep, and often don't even recognize at the time; I mean joy.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“To see that your life is a story while you're in the middle of living it may be a help to living it well.” - 
“Living, being in the world, was a much greater and stranger thing than she had ever dreamed.” - The Tombs of Atuan
“And though I came to forget or regret all I have ever done, yet I would remember that once I saw the dragons aloft on the wind at sunset above the western isles; and I would be content.” - The Farthest Shore
 “No darkness lasts forever. And even there, there are stars.” - The Farthest Shore
“Gradually the healing took place, seeming as it always does that it wasn't taking place.”  -
“How does one hate a country, or love one?... I know people, I know towns, farms, hills and rivers and rocks, I know how the sun at sunset in autumn falls on the side of a certain plowland in the hills; but what is the sense of giving a boundary to all that, of giving a name and ceasing to love where the name ceases to apply? What is the love of one's country; is it hate of one's uncountry? Then it's not a good thing.” - The Left Hand of Darkness
“It's a rare gift, to know where you need to be, before you've been to all the places you don't need to be.” - Tales from Earthsea
